Henick, welcome back to Talk By The Enemy. Good to see you, man.
Thanks for having me.
Yeah, it's great to have you back on the show.
I've been enjoying a lot of your articles and your videos lately,
and I thought, you know what?
Maybe we should just get together and have an opinion piece by Henick.
I can do opinions.
Yeah, yeah, I know. You're great, Adam.
And so we're going to talk about a whole bunch of different things,
a lot of the things that you've been talking about.
I'm also super interested in some cool articles you've written on Docker,
UV. Last time you were on, we talked about running in production,
and maybe we can review that a little bit and just get some of your takes
to see what's changed and what's still the same over the last couple of years.
But all those things are awesome.
We're going to talk about some of your open source projects.
It's going to be a journey. It's going to be fun.
Now, before we jump into all that, it's been a couple of years
since people heard you on the show.
Just a quick background about who you are.
All right.
My name is Henick.
I usually just go by my first name because it's already overwhelming
to most people to pronounce that one correctly.
Hi, Brian.
My last name is Slavak.
There's really not a lot of Henicks around,
so I just stick to the first name.
As you can hear, I'm a Czech living in Germany.
I live in Berlin,
and I work for a rather small web hosting company
in the main restaurant called Vario Media.
You probably haven't heard of us unless you speak German
because we only serve the German-speaking market.
We do speak English, but our stuff is in German.
Yeah, yeah.
And, yeah, I would say you would call it individual contributor there,
so we don't have managers, so everybody is.
And since we are rather small,
stability is the key thing when I'm building systems,
and that informs a lot of my opinions
that you will probably hear today from me.
Also, I like traveling,
and I don't want to be paged in the middle of my vacation
and I'm having margaritas on a beach.
Yeah, nobody wants to have to put down the margarita
because someone took down the server now.
Also, I'm sure we're going to speak a lot more about that,
but nowadays I'm also a YouTuber,
so that's very exciting.
And thanks for the shout-out in the last Python Bytes.
I really appreciated it.
Yeah, absolutely.
You're very welcome.
Awesome.
And I think it's interesting to have people who work on small teams,
especially smaller companies,
because that's the common theme of what people do.
I don't have it pulled up right now,
but if you go to the PSF survey
and you look at some of the demographic stuff,
it'll say, well, what size of a team do you work on?
Is it one person, two to five, 500 to 1,000?
The vast majority is the two to 10 different people.
It's not Google, Facebook, Microsoft, right?
So a lot of the advice that comes from these huge places
is just, I don't know, it's not super relevant.
Yeah, people adopt it.
I call it Google cosplay,
and I feel like my opinions about this whole production thing
are informed by my distinct dislike for these kind of things
where just some big tech influencers having opinions on stage
and everybody wants to mimic it,
and it just doesn't make any sense.
Because as you said, the long tail is huge.
Most people work for small companies.
It's just like that.
Yeah, and so the things you should do,
they're just different.
And no disrespect to those companies,
and they have a lot of employees,
but in the general population,
it's a very small group of people
who have hyperscaling clouds and whatnot
that they're worried about, right?
Yeah.
Awesome.
All right, well, you know what?
I think I want to start this conversation off here
by talking about some of the articles you've written.
So I think this one's interesting.
Let's talk about virtual environments.
Yeah.
Yeah?
Love them.
I do too.
And you wrote this article called
Why I Still Use Python Virtual Environments in Docker.
And I do as well.
And when I didn't use Docker,
I had them on my server as well.
And I feel like they're a really interesting,
predictable way to package Python.
And you hear about them, obviously,
oh, well, you're going to create a virtual environment
so you can have multiple projects
in your computer and so on.
But Docker, there's only one app running.
What's the deal with these virtual environments in Docker?
Yeah, I mean, you just said it, right?
It's a lot more predictable in its behavior.
It's a technology that we use everywhere too.
And I just understand what this directory is doing, right?
And I find it very important
that when I just go on a server or in a Docker container,
I know what a file is doing
or how things interact with each other.
And I don't have to hunt them down somewhere else.
Or another popular thing is that I write in the first paragraph
is that people use pipinstore user
and then set the Python user base directory.
And sure, you can do all these things,
but why would you, right?
Like, what are you gaining?
And it's a lot of vibes.
And I admit it in the article too,
but I just find it easier to reason about.
And not everything...
We don't use only things we need, right?
Like, we use affordances in other places too.
So why not this as an abstraction
over an application artifact
because we don't have anything better in Python.
Yeah, and also one of the things
that you point out in your article
that I think is really nice,
that's already the way you're working on your computer, right?
And so when you go to your Docker container,
it's the same.
You don't have to think about,
well, if it's misbehaving in production,
that's because, well,
maybe we've changed the Python path
or, you know, whatever, right?
It's exactly the same
as everyone else is working with.
Yeah, we forgot to set an environment variable.
Oh, no.
Nothing works now.
Exactly.
Oh, boy.
That's been interesting.
So, you know, what's your...
Let's talk about Docker just a little bit as well.
I think that alone is a pretty interesting choice.
You said you work on smaller teams
and maybe web hosting companies
give this a little bit of a plus-plus slant
on Docker or not.
But Docker, no Docker, right?
A lot of people, I think, see containers
and they think complexity
and they think it's hard to debug.
Like, if something goes wrong in the container,
it's just, it's opaque to me.
What would you say to people
that feel like containers are too complicated?
Obviously, the answer is, as always, it depends, right?
It's a trade-off like everything else.
Like, we don't give Docker to our customers.
Like, our customers, we sell mostly LAMP,
like, mostly WordPress,
which is very interesting these days.
Oh, my gosh.
I don't know if we want to go down that one,
but it is super, super turmoil right now.
Yeah, yeah.
No, we don't.
Let's talk about it.
Matt doesn't know we exist.
It's fine.
Yeah, so you're trading off the things you just said,
like the debuggability and everything
against development of velocity
and reproducibility.
So we, for example,
we don't run Kubernetes
because it's just too complex for us to run,
and we run everything on-premise.
So, like, we do not have anything,
we do not use any external services whatsoever.
Wow, okay.
Right.
So everything runs into our own data centers.
So we are European,
so some of the things we do,
other things we do
because Germans like it that way.
We can say, like,
our data center is right there.
You can look at it.
No data leaves it.
Yeah, if you have to,
I can come look at my code
through the little rack window.
There it is.
You can try around inside
and see how fast you get tasered by the security.
It's all good.
But we use quite a bit of HashiCorp software.
So we had Consul and Vault before
for configuration,
service discovery, and secrets.
So we use Nomad
because it was a logical add-on
to run our applications.
So, like,
that's where most of our web applications run.
Like, everything that can run in containers
usually runs in our Nomad cluster
in Docker containers.
And, yeah,
sometimes there are a bit of a pain
to debug,
but you can SSH
into a Docker container, right?
So, yeah.
And I, like,
first hot tip of the day,
there's this thing called BusyBox,
which is, like, one command.
And depending on what name you call it,
it's something different.
And it's just,
yeah,
it's just very,
very few bytes.
Like,
you can look at it,
and it's static.
it gives me things like ping,
and I think
trace root is in there, too.
So I can do, like,
all these,
yeah,
I can do all these basic things
in those containers, too.
So it's not like
it's a completely black box.
You can SSH into them.
It's no problem.
A couple thoughts.
One,
I agree with you on.
One more thing.
Yeah, yeah, go ahead.
We do not run SSH clients
on those Docker containers.
So this is an affordance
that we get from Nomad,
and I'm sure other
cluster managers
have that, too,
that they allow you
to enter containers
from the outside.
So, like,
you SSH into the host,
and that,
from there,
you get into the container.
Right.
Yeah, I do that,
as well,
on my stuff.
I've recently moved
a couple,
maybe a year or two ago,
to running,
I used to have
a bunch of smaller servers.
I don't know,
maybe I bought into
the cloud computing
as a bunch of commodity boxes,
and you can just make
a bunch of little ones,
and that's the way you do it.
And eventually,
I'm just like,
you know what?
I'm tired of dealing
with all these servers.
Putting them all in one thing,
running everything,
Docker,
keeping it isolated.
And it's been really excellent,
so similar access model there.
I'm not sure this makes sense
for you guys,
but I think for folks
who maybe expected still
to SSH into their server
and mess with it,
you know,
maybe this doesn't make sense
for your customers,
but maybe it does
for you guys individually,
behind the scenes,
is I like to have
a couple of tools,
a little bit,
like you were saying
with BusyBox,
already installed
in my Docker container,
so if I need to get into it
and ask it questions,
I can actually,
you know,
log in
through some sort
of Docker exec,
you know,
Docker exec,
dash IT,
sort of ZSH,
or bash,
or whatever,
and ask it questions.
What are your thoughts?
Do you think
if you put something like,
oh, my Z shell,
so you have better
command history
while you're poking around,
is that sacrilegious
in a Docker container,
or how do you feel
about this?
You're asking me
if you have a fan siege.
Well,
we are sacrilegious
in a different way,
like our normal servers
that we access H2,
we run fish on them,
because most of us
like fish.
Yeah, sure.
So we have very nice
fish prompts running there,
and everybody who claims
they have to use bash
on their notebooks
because they have to
access H2 servers,
look at us,
it's fine.
You can do whatever you want,
it's your servers, man.
I'm with you.
I don't have
the strong opinions,
because like,
as I said,
we run everything on-prem,
so we have our own
Docker registry,
so I'm not losing sleep
over how big
my containers are.
Yes.
Like, obviously,
I try to keep
the surface small,
because like,
everything you install
can probably be misused
in some way,
can be a problem,
like XZ, for example,
right?
Right.
Like, things can be dangerous,
but I mean,
if it helps you
to get things done,
whatever, right?
Yeah.
When you hear
the security folks
talk about living
off the land,
that's what they mean.
They're like,
oh, I somehow
got into this machine,
and it turns out
that this tool
that I needed
to access the database
was just laying here,
and off it goes,
right?
They didn't have to get
anything on the server.
So that,
in a sense,
you kind of want to eliminate.
I do think the trade-off
is are you pushing
to a Docker registry
and shipping
the thing all around,
or is it just being built
in some local-ish
story, right?
Interesting.
Okay.
So,
the reason
that I found out
about your article,
your virtual environment article,
is I was actually
looking around
at your UV article,
because,
wow,
does UV speed up Docker builds?
Oh, yeah.
So,
Jay Miller made a comment
just yesterday,
I saw,
that was pretty funny.
He said,
UV is the new AI,
and I suppose AI
is the new blockchain.
Like,
everyone's excited about it.
There's some
minor level
of controversy
about it,
but,
I don't know.
I'm a big fan.
What are your thoughts
on UV these days?
First of all,
for people who don't know,
we're talking a lot
of two-letter acronyms.
You said XZ earlier,
now UV.
Forget XZ,
that was bad,
but what's UV?
Well,
UV is
re-implementation
of Python packaging
in Rust,
roughly saying,
right?
In Rust.
Yeah.
Yes, Rust.
Yeah, yeah.
And they started
at the bottom,
they implemented
UV pip
to replace pip.
UV env
to re-implement
virtual env,
and UV pip compile,
I think,
was the thing,
to do our good
old requirements
of TXT files,
and they did it
very fast.
And already back then,
I said in a video,
it's nothing new
under the sun.
It's like,
we've got nothing new,
but this is how
you approach this problem,
because what I think
most people don't understand,
and this is a bit
of a tangent,
is what an incredible
Jenga tower
Python's packaging is.
Yeah.
Since,
like,
we've been building
these things for 30 years,
and there's so many
loose parts,
workflows that need
to be supported,
and oh my god,
I mean,
just look at
UV's bug tracker,
what kind of workflows
people need
to have supported,
and then you understand
why it's hard,
and why nobody
before
who did not have
eight people,
eight hours a day
working on it
to really move
the needle,
right?
Yeah,
now with
0.3.0,
they've now added
proper workflow tools,
which is very exciting,
right?
now we are attacking
Poetry PDM,
and they own Rai,
actually,
which they adopted
from Arm in Ronaha,
and now we have
cross-platform
log files,
which is very exciting
for people like myself
who develop
on Mac,
and an ARM Mac,
no less,
and deploy
to Intel
Linux.
Just asking
for trouble there.
Yeah.
And just as you said,
this is so incredibly fast.
Like,
UV sync,
you can call
after every command.
Like,
the thing that makes sure
that all your dependencies
are at the state
that is written
in the log file
is faster
than git status.
And I realized that.
Then I realized
what Charlie Marsh
means,
what he said
on your podcast
the other day,
that UV is
categorically faster,
and it just enables
a completely different
lifestyle.
Let's call it lifestyle.
It does, yeah.
Yeah,
you behave differently
when all those commands
are free,
basically.
And,
yeah,
that's UV.
It's a virtual tool.
It also installs Python.
Yeah,
and I think
one of,
probably one of the things
that I was most interested
about your take.
There was,
over on Python Bytes,
we covered this thing
by Simon Willison
where he kind of
summarized a Mastodon
thread
about UV
and whether it
being written
in Rust
is detrimental
to the Python
ecosystem or not
and all of those things.
But,
I think it was there.
Your take was,
look,
fast is interesting,
but one of the really
powerful things,
I think,
is here is a single binary
that if it's on your computer,
you can do all things Python.
Right?
And right now,
it's super,
without UV,
it's been really challenging.
Right?
Maybe,
I want to use
pip tools
or I want to use pip
to install something
or all of those things
are predicated on
several steps.
Do you have Python?
Do you have a right version
of Python?
Have you realized
you've got to create
a virtual environment
because you don't have
right access
to where,
there's just,
before you can get started,
like,
well,
here's a whole set
of conversations
you need to have
about not terribly
complicated things,
but things that people
might not care about.
And now,
if UV is just,
UV,
run,
and even,
you can even put
in the comment
in the top,
like,
these are the three libraries
I need to run it
and it'll just run.
Yeah.
Also,
they don't break.
That's what I meant
with the one binary,
right?
Like,
I think most of Python's
bad reputation
around packaging
is that things
just break
because Homebrew
updated your Python
or because
you didn't activate
your virtual env
and accidentally
installed something
into your global thing
or you used
pip install
--user
and now it's
in all your virtual envs
and you don't know why
and there's so much
unpredictability
around these things.
and now suddenly
we have like this one thing
that behaves
in certain ways
that people understand
and that people expect
it to behave
and as I said before,
this is not necessarily
the way I would like
it to behave
but I understand
why it's so important
to just narrow
the envelope
of packaging
of the behaviors
that we expect
and that we
as a community
endorse.
yeah,
totally agree.
There's certain things
I would like to see
different as well
but I'm really happy
that Charlie and team
are working on this
and pushing it forward
and maybe breaking
some paradigms
or expectations
saying look,
you don't even have
to have Python installed.
we can base it off
of,
gosh,
I forgot the name
of the project,
not Dead Snakes
but the Python
builds,
yeah,
builds standalone.
That's it.
Exactly.
and we'll just grab it,
right?
If you don't have
Python installed,
we'll just grab it.
Now a side issue
or maybe a tangent
parallel issue
is I would love
to see something
in Python itself
that gives you
a binary
that you can then
deploy, right?
UV is great
for getting your machine
up running
and getting Python
dependencies on it
and stuff
but Python
build
my folder,
my package
with an endpoint
or something
like Go,
like C++,
whatever.
Here's a binary.
You just run it.
It doesn't care
what's on your machine.
I know there's
some packaging
type stuff
like Pyto app.
I have an app
that's based on that
but it's,
those are still
kind of
trying to piece
things together
in a funky way
that Python
will allow
rather than
something truly
sort of
part of the.
it's the same
like with the
standalone builds.
Python really
fights you
when you try
to do
these encapsulated
things
and like
my dream
outcome
would be
if
these
standalone builds
would be
upstreamed
to proper
cPython
because this
is really
what I would
like to have
from
python.org
like these
directories
that I can
put anywhere
and they just
work.
But
it's not
trivial
and
the
author,
the original
author of
those
standalone
builds
because
it's been
taken over
by Astral
now too
but the
original author
was Gregory
Shorts I think
and he also
did this
Pyoxidizer
project which
was very
exciting to me
but he
kind of
burned out
completely
on working
with Python
at all
because it
was so
frustrating
for him
to deal
with these
things
and how
Python
behaves
and fights
him
when he
tries to
do these
things
and yeah
these kind
of changes
would have to
come from
Python proper.
Yes it would
have to definitely
come from Python
proper.
Well maybe
someday.
There's some
interesting
things are coming
along.
We might even
have Python
in the browser.
Weirdest things
have happened.
Yeah and
out in the
audience Tony
agrees that
it's super
powerful and I
haven't thought
much about it
I won't buy
anything to do
everything.
It's amazing
indeed.
All right.
So you want
to talk about
the controversies
to you or
just a segue?
Let me just
ask you a
question.
So here I
think the
controversy
is twofold
and I
accept that
it's somewhat
controversial but
I wouldn't say
that it's
controversial to
me.
I think
there's two
things.
One UV
is written
in Ruh
in Rust
rough and
rust.
I see the
challenge here.
Written in
Rust it's
not Python
so that makes
it harder.
I don't know
any Rust.
I might be
able to look
at Rust
codes.
I think
that's Rust
but I'd
have to do
some learning
to actually
do anything
with it.
And the
other is
venture backed
versus just
open source.
Like is
that healthy?
I think
for the
Rust part
for me
a lot of
libraries
are written
in C++
and I
used to
do C++
but I'd
rather not
go do C
but you
know
there's a
bunch of
C and a
Rust
they're kind
of similar
to me
like I'd
rather not
mess with
those but
if I had
to I could
learn it
feeling.
I don't
feel terribly
worried about
Rust in
that regard
but I don't
know what
are your
thoughts?
Just some
quick takes
on this.
Yeah the
quick take
is I
think it's
much more
a thing of
context right
now and
it's actually
how the
threat on
Mastodon
started.
We were
just starting
to get
off having
everything
written in
C so we
didn't have
to learn
C to
contribute to
certain
projects
because
we
ported
them to
Python
like now
the Pyrepl
in Python
3.13
which I'm
sure we
were talking
about is
now in
Python and
suddenly we
have more
contributions
right and
now people
find this is a
regression back
when we start
moving back to
Rust which in
certain ways it
is but then
again I think
people underestimate
how many Rust
savvy people we
have now in the
community so I
think the
upsides in this
case outweighed
downsides but
of course
everybody has
to decide
it themselves
yeah yeah
absolutely and
it's open
source if
something goes
terribly wrong
yes MIT
Apache 2
yeah yeah
there's already
646 forks I'm
sure there'll be
some more
no I'm I'm
happy to see
Charlie and
team working on
this and I
told Charlie that
a few weeks ago
or a couple months
ago when he was
on the show to
talk about some
of these ideas
I think what I
would really like
to stress here
is that it's
not like Astro
came to the
page and just
like forbade
everybody to
stop to do
open source
packaging we
had like at
least 10 years
of trying to
tackle this
problem with
our resources
that we have
as open source
developers and
it turned out
that we cannot
do that it's
just a too
complex problem
and I've
been like just
a few months
ago I was
I was literally
saying that I
would like to
see someone to
just put the
money where their
mouth is and
just bankroll a
good packaging
tool and this is
literally what just
happened so I'm
more on the relaxed
side of that because
I realized that we
just couldn't do it
like we tried we
failed many times
like there's a whole
graveyard of
packaging tools and
right now we have
a good one and
one day we will
probably have to
maintain it because
VC is going to
VC but it's fine
it's it's
interesting that is
for sure I
definitely know if
you want to get
VC funding having
rust as your
foundation seems to
be the trick right
now but I
another thing I
wouldn't you know
while we're on
this topic you
made a point in
one of the YouTube
videos which give
a shout out to in
a bit but you
said something to
the effect of you
be kind to all
the people who
have worked so
hard on this
problem before and
don't just trash on
the other projects
right six months
ago this thing was
mission critical to
you and it was the
way that you did
everything and now
like oh it's people
just know it's crap
because you like I
don't I think it's
it's important to
keep some perspective
you know
yeah I mean I've
been on the
receiving end of
such excitement so I
know exactly how it
feels and it's just
you can be excited
about something
without saying that
finally I can stop
using X and
ideally add the
maintainer of X so
they really know that
you finally don't have
to use their stuff
yeah exactly you
don't have to be
come on now so
real quick give us
some of the tips of
what you're doing to
make your your docker
builds faster I
know this this build
cache mount thing
is pretty interesting
letting you I mean I
adopted some of the
ideas you got in
here and some of my
own and docker
builds went so much
faster yeah I mean
the most important
thing is to have
multi-stage builds
which means that you
have a separate
container that builds
your application
whether it's a
virtual amphi jam
as we said before
which I like better
or if you just build
it to a directory
and then somehow get
it over because
you don't want to
have a C compiler
in all your
production production
containers so just
a waste of space
and as you said
living off the land
it's not good
then you want to
drop the hackers
into a desert not
a lush forest
exactly I mean
they're still going
to figure it out
but it's it's
it's just nicer
and easier to
reason about
then judicious
layering makes a
big difference
that you are very
clear about when
you build what
that you basically
sort your commands
in the order
in that they are
most likely to
change
so in a build
container that means
that your last step
is copying the
application
and the step
before is copying
the dependencies
yeah absolutely
and so I'll link to
one of your articles
here but
the other thing
that I think
is pretty
interesting that
people maybe
don't realize
or haven't used
a lot
I'm not sure
if I see
and here you go
is
you
when you run
docker commands
you can say
dash dash
mount
equals
slash root
slash
dot cache
yeah
that's build
cache mounts
that you mentioned
yeah
and what that
what that'll do
is when
either
doesn't matter
in this case
the way you got
it set up
either pip
or UV
if they
you know
a lot of times
when you pip
install something
they'll say
oh that's already
cached locally
we'll just install it
instead of download it
right
yeah
and that'll store
somewhere on
the host machine
all the cache stuff
right
it depends
so this is
something
I didn't spend
a ton of time
because you can
configure
where this is stored
and in the simplest
case
it is just
pulled from
the last container
that you built
that is like
the simplest
configuration
that you can use
that you say
so now I tag
a latest
container
which I never did
before
because for deployments
I usually
use numbers
but now
there's always
a latest tag
and it will take
the cache
from there
so it's most likely
pretty good
because it was
literally the last build
yeah yeah
okay
interesting
I see
that it's part
of the build cache
the docker layer cache
not some folder
laying around
I think it's actually
part of the container
if I'm not mistaken
completely
okay
yeah
so
definitely lightens
the load
on
PyPI a little bit
and makes yourself
faster
so that's all
that's all good
all right
what is next
on my list here
let me have a look
installing Python
that's probably
maybe a segue
that
keeps us
in the same realm
honestly
how do you get
Python on your
machine these days
if you're going
to work on something
do you brew install it
or do you download it
from
python.org
no
as my friend
Justin once wrote
homebrew's Python
is not for you
that Python
is for homebrew
to use in their
applications
and you notice it
very fast
because whenever
they upgrade
the Python
all your virtual
lengths break
so
this is not
great
so
I'm on
macOS
and
I'm on
an Apple Silicon
Mac
which
makes
things
a bit more
complicated
because
I need to
develop
some of my
projects
on Intel
because I
need to
use a
driver
for a very
shitty
proprietary
database
and
of course
they don't
have that
for ARM
and
it's written
in C
or some
sort of
binary
layer
yeah
binary
blob
so
I have
these two
types
of projects
and
so
the
official
macOS
installer
from
python.org
has this
amazing
property
that you
get
python
3.13
dash
intel64
and
when I
create
a virtual
length
with that
I know
this
virtual
length
is
intel
and
if not
it's not
and
it's
very nice
and predictable
for me
so I
really like
this
behavior
and
on
servers
we use
dead snakes
okay
yeah
very cool
lately
I've
been
switching
to
just
UV
VE
and V
give it
a
a python
version
which I guess
indirectly
is using
python build
standalone
right
yeah
they have
a bunch
of quirks
based on
the thing
that we
talked
before
that they
fight
that python
fights
it's
a little
bit
so I
cannot
use those
in
production
at least
not for
everything
because I
just had
some
some of
my packages
just won't
install on
them
that will
probably
get fixed
at some
point
but yeah
five node
org is a
safe thing
and I have
to shell
my friends
glyph's
tool
mop up
which just
allows you
to upgrade
those
installers
very easily
especially
when you
use UVX
because then
it's just
one line
yeah
mop up
is an
interesting
project
from glyph
as you
pointed out
that will
update your
your python
right
yeah
if you
have
installed
it
from
python.org
all right
another thing
that's
interesting
if you
install
python
from
python.org
is
in the
installer
you can
customize it
and you can
check a
checkbox
that says
give me
the free
threaded
python
let's talk
about
free
threaded
python
what do you
think
about this
this is
one of the
more
significant
changes to
python
and one of the
bigger peps
you know
we went through
the two to three
controversies
or challenges
so much
and I think
that was largely
because strings
were changed
I know there's a
bunch of other
changes
but it seemed
to me
that the
real challenge
of a lot
of the upgrades
of the
packages
been like
well
that used
to be
bytes
or strings
now
we've got
to treat
them differently
and we've got
to change
that
that's the
part that
was really
took the
work
and threading
seems harder
than
strings
I don't know
maybe it's
not
but
is this
going to be
a big
challenge for
people
or what
do you
think
yeah I guess
we will see
right
like normal
code
is probably
not going
to be
affected
a lot
but
for example
it's a
perfect timing
since I'm
maintaining
argon2
cffi
and
as the
name
says
it depends
on the
cffi project
to do the
bindings
and it
does not
support
free threading
yet
so I
cannot
build
free
threading
wheels
with that
yet
of course
people are
already
complaining
in my
issues
about
that
and
yeah
why isn't
your puppy
parallel
come on
now
get this
going
yeah
so this
is
there's
probably
more
projects
than
just
cffi
that
are
still
stuck
in some
way
because
they
are
not
important
enough
for
someone
from
meta
being
parachuted
into
the
project
and
fix
everything
I
personally
am
very
excited
by
free
threading
and
I
was
like
one
of
the
I
mean
there
was
I
don't
know
how
to
call
it
but
a
bit
of
an
election
right
to
decide
on
whether
or
not
and
it
was
like
this
we
made
public
statements
about
how
we
feel
about
this
whole
thing
and
I
personally
felt
good
about
it
back
then
I
still
do
I
think
it's
a
big
chance
our
one
shot
we
will
have
because
either
this
one
works
out
or
it's
not
going
to
happen
ever
we
will
never
have
a
three
threaded
Python
ever
because
this
is
the
perfect
constellation
of
stars
this
is
not
coming
back
that's
a
really
good
point
we've
had
the
Gilectomy
and other
attempts
before
but
this
is
it's
fast
accepted
it's
already
shipped
you're
right
if this
doesn't
work
we have
Meta
who
put
several
paid
people
on the
job
to get
it
done
this
is
one of
those
things
that
cannot
be
done
by
volunteers
on
beer
money
from
GitHub
sponsors
this
is
a
big
thing
that
needs
serious
money
to be
solved
I'm
excited
but I
don't
think
it's
going
to
be
that
big
of
a
problem
and
I
think
it's
going
to
do
some
very
excited
things
that
we
are
not
thinking
about
because
a lot
of
the
arguments
against
it
was
oh
threads
are
bad
it's
hard
to
write
multi-threaded
code
which is
all
true
the problem
is that
we just
don't have
good
APIs
for that
you can
build
good
APIs
for
threading
you just
have to
look what
Go is
doing
with
channels
we can
have
channels
in
Python
once
we have
good
threading
but
we never
bothered
to build
these
kind
of
APIs
because
it
doesn't
make
any
sense
with
the
guild
it's
better
to
go
async
that's
a really
good
point
and
I think
there's
an
analogy
with
async
remember
IO
shipped
in
Python
3.4
but
async
in a
way
the
keywords
in the
programming
model
shipped
in
3.5
so for
a while
it was
like
well
you guys
figured
it out
and then
the
programming
model
got way
nicer
yeah
I think
we might
have not
gotten
this
shot
if
async
IO
didn't
happen
back
then
because
it
just
showed
how
we
can
do
like
a
test
balloon
in
a
community
and
we
don't
have
to do
it
perfectly
on the
first
time
I think
we had
even
breaking
changes
in
minor
releases
of
3.5
because
we had
to
fix
things
up
so
yeah
I'm sure
it was
a bit
of
inspiration
I remember
a breaking
change
somewhere
in
Python
but
further
down
the
road
where
the
async
context
so
the
way to
say a
function
was
async
you could
use a
decorator
before
async
and await
came along
and
my code
which was
running
on MongoDB
which was
running
on
which was
using
motor
they
were using
that older
style to get
their async
and then
when it got
taken out
of Python
it just
well
stuff doesn't
run anymore
there is no
such decorator
async
something
I can't
remember
exactly
what it
was
but
it took
a week
or two
before
I could
run
the new
Python
which wasn't
a big deal
I just
didn't
use it
but it
did break
things
there was
plenty
of breaking
changes
in
async
I
was
quite
involved
with
that
whole
thing
and
I
remember
things
breaking
a lot
in the
beginning
but it's
good
it's good
that we
don't carry
that
technical debt
around
with us
now
I want
to give
a quick
shout out
to
a
pytest
plugin
called
pytest
FreeThreaded
from Anthony
Shaw
and
friends
this one
basically
lets you
run
your tests
in the
free threaded
Python mode
and run
them with
parallelism
and stuff
like that
because if
you're going
to have
a library
and you
have tests
for it
and it's
supposed to
support
free
threading
you should
probably
test it
with
free
threading
actually
running
at some
point
right
so
anyway
people are
trying to
move their
libraries
along
and I
think they
said
look
we tested
this on
one of the
libraries
that said
it was
free threaded
supported
and it
segfaulted
Python
so
maybe it
wasn't
quite ready
so run
your tests
if you're
going to
support
this
I think
it needs
to be
stressed
that the
trick to
not
break your
code
is to
just
not
mutate
global
data
in
multiple
threads
at once
just
avoid
doing
this
and
you'll
be
fine
and
most
people
don't
so
I
don't
expect
this
large
scale
breakage
the
problem
is
more
in
the
lower
level
things
like
CFFI
and those
kind
of
things
that
are
going to
take
a lot
of
time
to
figure
out
I think
yeah
I agree
does your
web
framework
support
free
threading
well you're
going to
find out
pretty quickly
you definitely
will
okay so
yeah I'm
personally excited
about it as
well I think
we're going to
have a lot of
good times
what else
about
3.13
are you
excited about
so I
feel like
Python 3.12
and 3.13
was more
like
like planting
trees
than
a good
harvest
you know
like
there's a lot
of work
a lot of
very very
hard work
when it
did these
two
releases
that
don't
benefit us
immediately
but that
that built
the foundation
for great
things to
come
like
free threading
is an
example
sub
interpreters
are an
example
like
internally
I mean
I shouldn't
admit it
but I'm
also a
Python core
developer
but I'm
just not
very active
because I
have
enough of
my own
stuff going
on nowadays
but internally
the 3.13
is kind of
called like
a secret
4.0
which
everybody
who has
to do
with
C APIs
have
noticed
because
like
unlike
the
releases
before
like 3.12
3.11
it took
quite a while
for the
ecosystem
to
catch up
with
all the
changes
to the
C API
because
there's
been a
lot of
changes
I mean
the
PyRipple
is great
Pablo
has made
a big
push
for better
error
messages
which is
also nice
yeah
and they
continue
to get
better
yeah
so this
is like
the
things
that
I'm
truly
user
facing
but
things
that
I
don't
really
care
about
that
much
I mean
I use
Python
so I will
probably keep
using it
still
I just hope
that maybe
PDB will get
better
now that we
have a
better
REPL
because my
favorite
debugger
PDBPP
has been
broken for
two releases
yeah so
that's my
hope
but
I'm not
really
excited about
anything from
3.12 and
3.13
I'm just
excited for
what those
releases are
going to
give us
in the
future
yeah
I'm
excited
for
just the
entire
faster
CPython
initiative
as it
works out
over
across
3.11
was probably
the biggest
one of those
I guess
although
we'll see
about this
free
threading
this might
you know
if you've
got a lot
of cores
that's a
massive
difference
if you can
take advantage
of it
if yeah
that's a
problem
right
because
I think
what was
said
that
they will
merge it
if the
penalty
for
non-threaded
code
is less
than 10%
which it
did
but
single-threaded
code
is going
to be
slower
in a
free-threaded
Python build
and it's
something we
have to
keep in
mind
right
yeah
well I guess
it depends on
your workload
what you're
doing right
but with
little dev
tools I
fixed
this
what's new
in Python 4
here we
ship it
although I got a few more
spots I got to do a little
finer in place in this
document
looking at the
what's new in
okay also I think
yeah I think the new
REPL
is quite nice
it's been
using the
traditional REPL
I think it's been
really challenging
right
did you write
a loop
and you want to go
back and edit it
well you got to
okay I remember
that was four lines
up for the four
part and then
the four again
to get you know
like that was just
challenging
to have multi-line
edits on there
now
a lot nicer
just simple things
like key binding
sometimes not working
or just printing
weird stuff
into your console
it's
yeah but these
are the things
kind of like
the virtual
environment
you know get your
virtual environment
set up get your
dependencies installed
it doesn't sound
like that big of a
deal but it is
friction to people
who come to the
ecosystem
right
every paper cart
less is good
yeah that's 100%
right
definitely good
YouTube
I mean look
you're on YouTube
right now
but we're talking
about you being
on YouTube
so it's kind of
meta
but yeah
you're doing a
really good job
with your YouTube
videos lately
you know
thank you so much
done a couple
of the last
yeah yeah you're
welcome
I think
you know
I've done a lot
of YouTube videos
but even more
sit down
by yourself
behind the
camera
for course videos
I have like 270
hours of course
videos
and you know
the editing
the I'm excited
to talk to nobody
right
all of these things
are not that easy
to do
and yeah
I want to just
talk about what
you're up to
over there a bit
yeah
I mean
maybe let's start
with the silliest
reason why I started
doing this
it's
I'm very aware
and self-conscious
about how bad
my spoken English is
so
it's my third language
and I don't speak
it often enough
so there's this
joke from my
friends at the
PyCon when the
just arrived
jet-lagged
Hinek
who only spoke
English to the
US immigration
officer trying
not to get
detained
is very different
from the Hinek
like a week
later who
spoke to his
friends for a
week right
so my hope
was that
maybe
it forces me
to
speak a lot
more English
in my everyday
life
it turned out
I'm way too
slow at producing
videos
so that part
didn't work out
at all
I mean
you say like
300 hours
but for me
like the 25
minutes video
that I've just
published
that's like
one hour
of film material
that I'm
cutting down
to 25 minutes
yeah
so
that's
a lot of
work
editing
and
yeah
the most
the more serious
reason
that actually
worked out
and this is
not going to be
all of
Philly
is
I do have
a lot of
people that
follow me
across my
platforms
and know me
from PyCon
and I've heard
the term
PyCon cinematic
universe
put out
which I'm
probably
a part of
but
this universe
is tiny
like the
Python community
is huge
people don't
understand
how huge
they are
and
I mean
just like
this Twitter
account
that post
just like
these trivial
things
that sometimes
outright
wrong
and they have
like hundreds
of thousands
of followers
and the same
is on
YouTube
and
I
I did
not
I haven't
found
any
Python
content
on YouTube
that I really
liked
like for the
things that I
care about
like maybe
there's amazing
data science
stuff there
but there's
not things
that I care
about
so I
thought
with the
usual
programmer's
hubris
sure I
can do
that
and I'm
trying to
build our
own
we're doing
it
how hard
can it
be
and
I'm
trying to
do content
that I
wish existed
for me
15 to 20
years ago
but to be
honest like
the ultimate
trigger is
that
before
COVID
I had
like this
nice lifestyle
where I
broke
one amazing
conference
talk
per year
like
scare
quotes
and
I could
just like
travel the
world
and give
it
and this
doesn't
work
anymore
like the
conference
world has
more or less
collapsed
conferences have
no money
anymore
it's much
harder to
get invited
so
and it
was kind
of like
I told you
I work for
small companies
so like my
actualization
and creativity
comes mostly
from the
community
and I
felt like
being cut
off
like I
couldn't do
my creative
work anymore
because I
couldn't
I couldn't
pay for all
those flights
and the
same happened
to writing
I mean
whatever
Google and
Twitter are
doing right
now
unless your
blog post
lands on
Hacker News
front page
you basically
get no more
traffic anymore
it's
it has been
completely
obliterated
like my
blog has
like 40%
less traffic
than a year
ago
and I don't
think it's
that my
content got
stale
it's
it just
changed
so I
thought
I should
try a new
avenue
I should
go where
the people
are
I've read
somewhere
that like
YouTube
is the
second biggest
search engine
or something
so
yeah
trying my
hand
yeah well
nice work
it's
it's an
interesting
outlet
and you
know
you look
at
it's
the numbers
are ridiculous
right
and look
at
oh this
person just
posted a
video on
this and
six hours
later it
has more
views than
if it was a
major television
series or
something like
it's a weird
world
world for
sure
yeah
I mean
I'm a
niche in
a niche
so I
don't expect
ever to
blow up
like this
but
yeah
we'll see
how it
goes
it's still
great
let's
talk a
little bit
about some
of your
projects
you talked
about
argon
I think
maybe one
of the
things you're
best known
for might
be
adders
what do
you say
you think
it depends
who you
ask
yeah
okay
I think
adders
had the
biggest
impact
on the
community
because
they are
the
direct
predecessor
of
data
classes
that
I
designed
with
Guido
and
Eric
back
then
that
goes
back
to
adders
because
people
wanted
something
like
adders
in
that
standard
library
but
yeah
tell us
tell people
about
adders
for those
who don't
know
yeah
I mean
imagine
data
classes
but
more
powerful
people
sometimes
try to
compare it
to
PyDentic
but
that's
not that
adders
is not
trying to
be
a
validation
thing
adders
is
there
for
creating
classes
that you
would have
written
yourself
and
I call
it
like a
class
writing
toolkit
and
data
classes
keep
catching
up
with
what
we
do
but
we
are
still
ahead
so
we
have
more
features
we
work
better
and
especially
for
data
science
things
because
we
allow
people
to
define
comparisons
in a
custom
way
so
you
can
compare
NumPy
arrays
and
you
don't
need
to
use
type
annotations
if
you
hate
them
that's
also
a
big
feature
yeah
okay
interesting
yeah
so
when you
create
a
class
you know
you can
just put
some
fields
on it
and that's
great
but
there's
probably
some
other
things
you might
want
to do
like
define
a
hash
and define
an
equals
and a
not
equals
and
a
stir
and a
repper
and all
these
kinds
of
things
and
you
just
get that
out of
the box
right
and
maybe
you
want
the
class
to be
frozen
maybe
you
want
slots
and
these
kind
of
things
slots
interesting
I don't
know
everyone
knows
about
slots
are
kind
of
a
cheat
code
for
low
memory
fast
access
tell people
about slots
dunder
slots
well
when you
create a
class
in
Python
by default
it's
a
so-called
dictionary
class
because
it has
a
dunder
dict
field
where
all the
attributes
are
defined
and
you
can
do
with
those
classes
whatever
you
want
can
just
add
more
attributes
but
if you
define
a
slotted
class
which
doesn't
have
this
dunder
dict
but
dunder
slots
and
you
enumerate
all
attributes
that
this
class
will
have
and
it's
then
baked
into
the
class
so
this
has
the
big
upside
if
you
try
to
assign
an
attribute
that
doesn't
exist
it
will
throw
an
error
which
is
good
because
it
probably
means
that
you
mistyped
and
this
is
like
the
thing
that
you
see
from
the
outside
from
the
inside
it's
much
more
interesting
because
those
classes
are
more
baked
so
they
are
just
faster
they
are
faster
and
use
less
memory
yeah
they
use
quite
a
bit
I
think
named
tuples
use
more
memory
and you
think
tuple
is
about
as
bare
bones
as
it
can
get
but
yeah
it's
quite
interesting
my
experience
is
that
even
attribute
access
is
a
tiny
bit
faster
than
regular
classes
yeah
and this
is
why
in
the
new
APIs
it's
the
default
in
others
like
data
classes
grew
slots
too
but
it's
optional
in
others
it's
now
opt
out
because
it's
really
good
oh it
is
yeah
because
why not
and
my
experience
is
it's
cool
to have
the
dynamic
nature
of
classes
and
types
and you
can do
all sorts
of stuff
to
change
them
but
most
of the
time
you
don't
and
if
you're
not
going
to
like
you
said
get
the
I
mistyped
something
catch
because
it
won't
let
you
do
it
and
the
better
memory
and better
performance
right
yeah
I think
this is
something
that
Rust
has
changed
too
the
influence
of Rust
on Python
has been
that we
got a little
less dynamic
with time
which I
personally
think is a
good thing
because I
started moving
away from
that sooner
like
using
dictionaries
and tuples
and all these
things
it's
just
very hard
to reason
about
when you
come back
like a year
later
and try
to understand
what this
code
is doing
so
yeah
what is this
star star
kwh orgs
thing
what are we
doing here
there's still
so many
APIs
you have a
nice IDE
you press
F12
you jump
to the
function
and it's
star star
kwh orgs
and thank you
yes exactly
you know
if that works
out well
there might be
a big
doc string
that says
these are
the seven
things that
can actually
go in
these keyword
arguments
and here's
their type
it's true
yeah
it's actually
true
or it's
actually
comprehensive
yeah
I don't
know
I feel
a lot
of times
if
when you're
doing that
kind of
stuff
if you end
up back
in the
documentation
like something's
kind of gone
a little bit
wrong
like you should
probably be able
to tell
at least
does it
take arguments
what might
they possibly
be
you know
but
then you go
to the
documentation
it's auto
generated
you're like
well
no
not getting
far
on this
one
well
since we're
we have
this
the
opinion
of
Hennick
episode
what are
your thoughts
on types
I love
types
like I just
said
I was
moving to
like more
static
things in
general
because it's
just easier
to reason
about
easier to
understand
and it
informs the
design of
APIs too
like which
I just
find the
APIs that
come out
nowadays
are
widely
more
accessible
than we
used to
have
unless
Lukasz Langer's
keynote a few
years ago
at PyCon US
was like
if something
is hard to
type
maybe it's
just bad
design
that's an
interesting
take
yeah
it's not
always true
by the way
like there
are legitimate
use cases
for Python
where
typing is a
bad fit
and it's
completely true
not great
for everything
but I
personally
just take
any help
that I
can get
that helps
me to
make my
code more
understandable
and help
me like
ensure that
I'm writing
what I'm
thinking I'm
writing
like types
help me the
best with
finding
logic errors
in what I
thought I
was passing
around and
what I was
actually passing
around because
like things
that work by
accident because
something gets
auto converted
somewhere are
the most
dangerous things
because they
explode when
you are on
the beach
with your
margarita
yeah they
do and
that's not
good as we
already pointed
out
you know
another thing
that I really
like about
them I'm
kind of on
on your team
with this one
as well and
I really like
that I hinted
to that before
you don't have
to go to the
documentation and
go like what
is this I know
it says it
takes an
options but what
is an options
you know like I
have no idea what
goes here still
this doesn't tell
me but if it
means it's this
class or it's a
dictionary well at
least you got some
hints on like
well this is where
where I start
knowing what I'm
supposed to do
here and also
with the editor
right if I hit
dot it gives you
a way better
chance of just
continuing to
type instead of
going looking up
stuff
and also that's
something people
don't talk that
much about but it
forces you to give
things names you
know and sometimes
when you have
problems to give a
type a name that's
a sign that you
don't quite understand
what the thing is
doing or maybe it's
doing too many
things and it
just that way you
have like this
instant feedback about
your design and how
you think about
things and that I
find I find it very
useful and also I
have to point is
if typing would
be just marking
things that could
be none or not
that would be
already like 99%
of the value of
types like just
helping to avoid
non-type errors
yeah
optional or not
optional what are
we going to do
here
yeah
yeah I do like
that it's
optional that it's
progressive
right
yeah
you know I
I came from
static languages
to Python and
the fact that it
didn't have types
I kind of wanted
something but I
also played around
with TypeScript
and I've
battled with the
TypeScript system
where it's like well
we don't know what
this thing is but
you're supposed to
pass in something
that's known in the
type system
I know this will
work just get out
of my way and let
me do it you know
what I mean and
and I think there's
a right a pretty
good balance that's
caught here
yeah I think so
I have a whole
keynote in my head
about the true
Python superpower
is the graduality
because you can
start with the
biggest trash
shitty code in a
Jupyter notebook
and just work
yourself up by
putting it in a
file running
rough linter
then adding types
and what and so
on and you end up
with production code
of the best kind
but you started with
complete shit and
that's how my brain
works like I like to
try things out and
then just polish the
turd
polish it when it's
proven that it's
worth putting your
time and energy to
right
and I find it's
very frustrating
with languages like
Rust or Go which
I read a lot of Go
and Go won't even
compile your thing if
you have an unused
import and this is
just so frustrating
oh my gosh
just eat my trash
and make it work
I will fix it later
I promise
that's a pretty
interesting take
all right well
let's
give it a shout out
to
stamina
also
like that's
that's a
surprise hit to me
yeah
it's like
from my
latest projects
kind of the
most popular one
because
it just solves
the problem we all
have that we use
tenacity which is a
great
sorry I muted
myself for a second
we all used tenacity
which is a great
package
but it has no
good default
because it's also
a very old package
and everybody's just
copy pasting
these standard
settings around
that make it behave
in a good way
and it's also
at least back then
didn't do proper
typing
so I just wrote
this tiny shim
around that
so I can stop
copy pasting
the same things
over and over again
it turns out
a lot of people
have the same
problem
so
yeah
yeah so if
you've got a function
for example
like you'll
example here
that might
crash because
HTTP error
like you know
what if I just
tried this again
I bet it would
work
right
just add
stamina
dot retry
specify the error
yep
I'm
I don't
it's been a while
since I checked
it out
but it's got
like exponential
back off
and other
things like
oh and jitter
okay nice
yeah
I use it
in certain things
it's not very
often that you need
something like this
but when you do
you're like
oh yes
it's getting this
you know
like in my experience
you need it
whenever you talk
to external systems
because
if you're doing
this API
it will fail
at some point
and just
just put it
on it
and just
I mean
nowadays it has
a lot of more
features
like you can
now like
have a callable
that decides
where you
want to really
want to retry
for example
you've got an
HTTP error
but in HTTPX
there's no
difference between
HTTP error
because you got
a 500 back
or because you got
a 401 back
if you keep
retrying on
401 or 403
you will get
banned from
the API
right
but on the 500
you probably
want to retry
these kind of things
yeah
yeah absolutely
yeah the whole
rate limiting thing
that's also
tricky to work
with
but I suppose
if you said
like okay
well retry it
but put some
kind of delay
you know
maybe
maybe it'll be
alright
yeah
the delay is
built in
that's the whole
point
it's exponential
back off
yeah
perfect
one thing
I do want
to talk about
as well
is just
Argon
real quick
like
very
very cool
algorithm
it's
one of these
so called
memory hard
problems
that
is somewhat
resistant to
brute forcing
over just
massive parallelism
and so on
want to talk
about that
real quick
sure
what do we
want to hear
well just
tell people
what it is
maybe you know
what's your
project about
and what
should people
consider using it
you know
yeah so
many many
years ago
I think it was
like 2016
or so
there was this
password hashing
competition
because we
needed to
find a way
to hash
our passwords
in a way
that is
as you
just said
memory hard
so
right
if you hear
of rainbow
tables
you shouldn't
be using
md5
all these
things are
like all
part of
that
like we
got to
get past
that
right
yeah
so this
is like
next level
because people
were running
ASICs
so like
programmable
boards
that are just
specifically
for cracking
passwords
in parallel
the only way
to get
to fight
this
is make
it memory
hard
so like
checking
these passwords
or hash
this hashing
algorithm
also needs
a lot of
memory
to work
there's
one more
famous
one
which is
called
scrypt
or yescrypt
which is
now it is
also part
of the
standard
library
so
that's
that
but
argon2
won the
password
hashing
competition
and
yeah
it works
it's
in wide
use
and
yeah
I'm
maintaining
it for
now like
six years
or something
or I think
longer
so if
you're storing
your own
passwords
certainly
this is
one of the
good options
do you know
what the
story is
with
oh gosh
what is it
is it
passlib
I believe
oh
passlib
oh man
this is
yeah
really
man
passlib
is throwing
a lot of
warnings
about
things
that it's
using
that are
being
deprecated
or even
removed
I feel
like it
it was
really great
for a while
but
you know
now
if you
go to
it
it's
like
yeah
last
edited
four years
ago
that's
a
problem
yeah
it's
it's not
great
and
I feel
like it
was on
almost on
SourceForge
or something
for a while
which is
really
I can't
remember
exactly
where I
saw
Bitbucket
is fine
yeah okay
Bitbucket
is fine
no it's
not
it's
gone
oh is
Bitbucket
gone
yeah more
or less
you can
see the
the URL
this is
a
heptapod
which is
like the
only
mercurial
hosting
that
open source
projects
can use
nowadays
yeah
there you go
Bitbucket
deprecating
mercurial
support
yeah
I see
all right
but will
they also
have
argon2
support
which is
they use
my library
yeah that's
what I
thought
yeah that's
what I
thought
yeah super
cool
awesome
all right
well let's
let's close this
out with one
more take
before I think
we're pretty much
out of time
but it's been
a lot of fun
LLMs
LLMs writing
code for us
are we just
going to be
out of work
in a year
or two
what do you
think about
this
I'm not
super worried
about it
but it's
definitely
changing
things
I think
when you
say we
it can
mean we
the two
of us
and the
answer is
clearly no
I think
we as
Michael and
Hinnick
will benefit
from LLMs
I think
but we
as
programmers
in general
and especially
junior programmers
that's going
to be a
different thing
and I
wouldn't dare
to
guess
how that
will play
out
like
I'm
personally
using
LLMs
I
use
Anthropic
but
I
use
it
in
a
way
that
I
feel like
you have
to be
very
senior
to
actually
use
that
because
when you
ask it
for code
you just
get
code
with
old
libraries
because
it's
trained
on
old
code
from
GitHub
right
I
copilot
once
gave
me
SQL
injection
code
it
will
be
fine
I
mean
what
is
the
most
common
security
problem
with
code
SQL
injections
of
course
it's
going to
be
in
those
LLMs
and
suggesting
it
to
me
and
so
I
think
it's
going
to
it
is
a
useful
tool
it
usually
doesn't
give me
what
I
need
but
it
gives
me
enough
to
help
me
to
ask
a
search
engine
what
I
actually
need
so
that's
what
I'm
going
to
say
what
it's
actually
really
good
for
is
writing
SQL
in
my
experience
because
my
brain
I
somehow
cannot
write
CTEs
like
I
just
the
syntax
I
don't
know
I
just
can't
so
I
usually
ask
an
LLM
to write
the
CTE
for
me
and
just
write
the
rest
of
the
query
well
for
me
that's
regular
expressions
that's
why
I
go
to
LLMs
I'm
like
you
need
to
write
me
a
regular
expression
with
some
capture
groups
because
this
is
too
much
for
me
JQ
is
also
a
good
example
for
LLMs
yeah
I've
been
using
LM
studio
which
is
really
nice
it
lets
you
download
a bunch
of
different
models
and
I've
been
running
Llama
and
Mistral
lately
and
they've
both
been
pretty
good
so
one
thing
that's
pretty
interesting
here
is
if
you
talked
about
this
as well
and
I
don't
know
what
this
trend
means
but
if
you
go
to
Stack
Overflow
Trends
and
you
look
at
the
most
popular
languages
and
you
look
right
around
late
early
there
is
a
ridiculous
drop
in
the
popularity
of
questions
on
Stack
overflow
for
Python
JavaScript
and
interestingly
not a
whole lot
for the
others
but
that's
when
ChatGPT
came out
so I
don't know
what it's
going to
mean
but it's
clearly
having
some
kind
of
effect
somewhere
but that
might just
be making
people more
productive
and they're
not on
Stack
Overflow
that might
be a
Stack
Overflow
problem
not a
The
friction
to ask
LLM
is much
smaller
than
asking
actual
people
and
get
trolled
by
some
moderator
or
whatever
so I
can see
that people
are going
to
prefer
LLMs
to talking
to people
and also
most
questions
on Stack
overflow
quite
trivial
to be
honest
so I
think
that
makes
sense
how do
I
connect
to a
database
using
this
library
right
like
yeah
or how
do I
disable
SSL
because I'm
getting
this
certificate
error
all the
time
classics
yeah
but it
also means
that a lot
of trash
code is
being written
right now
right
like the
things that I
just told
you
that where
you and
I we
look at
this code
and we
say okay
this in
principle
is useful
but I
cannot put
this into
production
because
error
handling
is wrong
or there's
some security
issue
or whatever
this is
something that
actually concerns
me
like a lot
of people
are writing
code they
don't
understand
and putting
it into
production
and I
think that's
going to
have
consequences
that are
not going
to be
pretty
yeah
I totally
agree with
you
and also
one of my
concerns
you touched
on as well
is like
how do you
go from
beginning
developer
to
slightly
beyond
junior
developer
right
that
I don't
know if
LLMs are
going to
help people
make that
jump quicker
or if
they're just
going to
make that
jump
like a
wider
chasm
because people
won't need
juniors
because they're
just going
to ask the
LLM to
just do
the thing
you know
yeah
this is
the problem
like
bean counters
are going to
look into
Excel
and I
got to
wonder
what makes
more sense
right
the fact
there
are
eating
their
seed
for
next
year
and
suddenly
oh my
god
why are
there
no
new
senior
software
engineers
well
we didn't
make them
but
yeah
it's going
to be
like
a
kobold
right
there'll
be
fewer
people
who are
really
needed
to keep
things
working
we will
never
retire
Michael
exactly
yeah
we're
going to
be
programming
on the
beach
with our
margaritas
in our
70s
well
let's
leave it
there
is that
a positive
take
I don't
I really
enjoyed our
conversation
though
and a lot
of good
advice for
people
so
thanks for
being here
yeah
thanks for
having me
yeah you
bet
see you
later
Okay.
Thank you.